DOCSP-47063: Logging (#267)
mongodb/docs-php-library: source/monitoring-logging/logging.txt

from both components.
  
Register a Logger
-----------------

To configure your application to receive messages about driver events,
create a logger class that implements the ``Psr\Log\LoggerInterface``
interface. Then, use the ``MongoDB\add_logger()`` function to register
your logger.

Each log message includes the following information:

- Log level: Indicates the severity of the message. To view a list of 
  possible levels, see `PSR\\Log\\LogLevel <https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-3/#5-psrlogloglevel>`__.
- Message: Describes the logged event.
- Domain string: Specifies the driver component that emitted the log message.

To implement ``Psr\Log\LoggerInterface``, you can create a class that
extends the ``Psr\Log\AbstractLogger`` class. ``AbstractLogger`` implements
``LoggerInterface`` and a generic ``log()`` method, which receives log
messages at each severity level.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example performs the following actions:

- Creates a logger called ``MyLogger`` that extends the ``AbstractLogger`` class
  and records the log level, description, and domain of each event
- Registers the logger

> - Creates a client that connects to a CosmosDB cluster

Reviewer: S: I'm guessing that you are connecting to this cluster because it will generate an info message, but perhaps you should ping Rishabh to ask if we want to demonstrate this as an example

- Prints each log message

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable:

   .. input:: /includes/monitoring-logging/logging.php
      :start-after: start-register-logger
      :end-before: end-register-logger
      :language: php
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :visible: false

      Array
      (
          [0] => Array
              (
                  [0] => debug
                  [1] => Connection string: 'mongodb://a.mongo.cosmos.azure.com:19555/'
                  [2] => PHONGO
              )
          [1] => Array
              (
                  [0] => debug
                  [1] => Creating Manager, phongo-1.21.0[stable] - mongoc-1.30.1(bundled), libbson-1.30.1(bundled), php-8.4.4
                  [2] => PHONGO
              )
          [2] => Array
              (
                  [0] => debug
                  [1] => Setting driver handshake data: { name: 'ext-mongodb:PHP / PHPLIB ', version: '1.21.0 / 1.21.1 ', platform: 'PHP 8.4.4 ' }

>                   [2] => PHONGO

Reviewer: Q: What is PHONGO? might be worth describing what types of things users might expect to see here

Author: It means the log entry comes from the PHP extension. I will ask dbx if PHONGO (the extension) and mongoc (the c driver) are the only possible domains and I'll add that information

              )
          [3] => Array
              (
                  [0] => info
                  [1] => You appear to be connected to a CosmosDB cluster. For more information regarding feature compatibility and support please visit https://www.mongodb.com/supportability/cosmosdb
                  [2] => mongoc
              )
          [4] => Array
              (
                  [0] => debug
                  [1] => Created client with hash: a:4:{s:3:"pid";i:61731;s:3:"uri";s:41:"mongodb://a.mongo.cosmos.azure.com:19555/";s:7:"options";a:0:{}s:13:"driverOptions";a:1:{s:6:"driver";a:2:{s:4:"name";s:6:"PHPLIB";s:7:"version";s:6:"1.21.1";}}}
                  [2] => PHONGO
              )
          [5] => Array
              (
                  [0] => debug
                  [1] => Stored persistent client with hash: a:4:{s:3:"pid";i:61731;s:3:"uri";s:41:"mongodb://a.mongo.cosmos.azure.com:19555/";s:7:"options";a:0:{}s:13:"driverOptions";a:1:{s:6:"driver";a:2:{s:4:"name";s:6:"PHPLIB";s:7:"version";s:6:"1.21.1";}}}
                  [2] => PHONGO
              )
      )

The preceding output includes log messages with a ``debug`` severity level, which

> describe normal driver activities. It also includes a message about the CosmosDB

Reviewer: S: to resolve the vale issue you could use a phrase like "These messages provide updates on the state of the connection" as normal is subjective

              (
                  [0] => warning
                  [1] => This is a warning message
                  [2] => domain1
              )
          [1] => Array
              (
                  [0] => critical
                  [1] => This is a critical message
                  [2] => domain2
              )
      )

Remove a Logger
---------------

To unregister a logger, pass your logger object as a parameter to the ``MongoDB\remove_logger()``
function. After calling this function, your logger no longer receives log
messages about your application.

The following example unregisters a logger:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/monitoring-logging/logging.php
   :language: php
   :start-after: start-remove-logger
   :end-before: end-remove-logger
   :dedent:

Additional Information
----------------------

To learn more about the PSR-3 logger, see `PSR-3: Logger Interface
<https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-3/>`__ in the PHP-FIG documentation.

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To learn more about the {+library-short+} methods discussed in this guide, see the
following API documentation:

- :phpmethod:`MongoDB\add_logger()`
- :phpmethod:`MongoDB\remove_logger()`

> To learn more about C driver logging behavior, see `Logging
> <https://mongoc.org/libmongoc/current/logging.html>`__ in the ``libmongoc``
> API documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about how the underlying C driver generates log messages, see `Logging
<https://mongoc.org/libmongoc/current/logging.html>`__ in the ``libmongoc``
API documentation.
```
